Networking is a very deep,
very deep pool of knowledge that I
have just the surface layer of this.
So I'm going to introduce you to
what networking in Docker is, but
recognize that we're just
scratching the surface here.
There are people that their entire job
is just working on networking stuff, so
I'm not gonna pretend that I have
that kind of knowledge, here.
So let's come back to our TERMINAL.
If you say docker network ls,
you should see something akin to this,
I think this is docker-node-one is I
have from a previous Kubernetes project,
but you probably see bridge,
host, and null,
those are the three you very
likely are seeing right now.
I could probably even just say
docker network rm that one.
Okay, so
now you can see I just have three, and
I imagine you see something akin to that,
right?
So docker allows you to one,
connect to the default bridge network,
which is called bridge, right and that's
the one that we're gonna be working with,
is bridge networks.
And then this allows you to connect
two containers to each other, right?
So if I have this particular microservice
needs to talk to this particular
microservice, I can create a docker
network that allows the two containers to
talk to each other, right?
It's kind of the idea here and
generally don't recommend that you
use The default bridge network
they ask you to create your own.
So that's what we're gonna do
we're gonna say Docker network,
create -- driver=bridge, and
then you can call whatever you want,
but we're gonna call ours
app net cuz I'm creative.
So now if we say Docker network LS,
you can see here we have
an app net bridge, right?
So now we have like an arbitrary network
that we can connect various containers to,
and then any containers that are connected
to that or network can talk to each other.
So let's connect something to it,
let's connect a running micro or
a MongoDB server to this network.
So MongoDB, for those of you that
don't know is a NoSQL database,
it's one of my personal favorites,
it's familiar to a lot of node developers,
but allows you to speak JSON to a database
and it's unstructured which is great.
So I'm gonna say docker
run-d --network=app-net,
then I have to expose
the port that it's on,
which is 27017.27017,
that's the default MongoDB one,
we're gonna give it a name of db.
You can be more creative than that, I'm
just lazy -- RM to remove it at the end,
and we're gonna do Mongo:3,
there's a newer version of Mongo but
everyone stick to three because I
have all the drivers working for
Mongo three as well, Okay?
So you should run that and
it'll start up on the background, so
now if I say docker ps I should see that I
have a Mongo server that's probably still
starting up, Okay?
So, what I'm gonna do now is I'm
gonna start a second Mongo container
because the Mongos container contains
both Mongod which is actually the server
that runs in the background,
it also contains the Mongo client.
So I'm gonna use one container to talk to
the other container, does that make sense?
So let's try it, I'm gonna say docker
run -it --network=app-net --rm,
and we're gonna get the Mongo 3 container,
and
we're gonna say -- host db,
I have to type Mongo again.
So after you type Mongo three, we want
it to run with the Mongo client, right?
This is the command we're giving it,
Okay, so docker run- it
network=app net --rm, mongo 3,
mongo which is actually say
run the mongo client, right?
The database client where you can connect
to it and run queries against it, right?
And then --host db, right?
So what's cool about this is I called
this db right up here in the names,
that's going to make the URL of db
right instead of like localhost,
it's gonna be db connects to the other
one on the network called db, right?
That make sense?
So if I run this, it should drop me
into MongoDB which is did, right?
So if I say show DB's,
I can see that this that and
I can say use tester, okay?
So then I can say
db.someCollection.insertOne({
x:1}) wow I'm impressed with myself
that I remembered how to do that.
Okay so
now if I say like show collections,
I've created a sum collection here anyway,
point being, this is a real database,
it's storing stuff somewhere which
is in another MangoDB container.
Now, I could use volumes to have this
MongoDB instance right out to a volume and
then this would be persistent
between runs as well, right?
Not doing that right now,
because that's not the point of this but,
the point here is that I have
this Mongo container over here,
talking to this Mongo
container over there.
And just to kind of prove my point,
if I say docker ps in a different shell,
you can see here I have one mongo 3 here,
and this is running on 2707, or
this one is rather, and
this one's called db, right?
That's actually the running database and
you can see here if I say docker top db,
it's running Mongod, right?
>> Mongod.
>> What's that?
>> Mongod, something like that yeah.
>> And network into each other
because they're on the same network?
>> Yeah, they're allowed to, right?
Cuz they're both connected to App net,
and so
now DB inside of this one refers
to this database particularly,
so if you say ping http://db,
it'll hit the other container over there,
does that make sense?
>> So
the volumes would In the db database.
>> You connect the volumes
to this one yeah, to db, and
then you can configure mongo
where it stores its data,
you would just configure it to
store the data on the volume.
And then to read it when it starts back
up, I'm showing you how to do this by
hand, again, because I'm gonna show you
later how to not do this by hand, right?
Typically you're not going to be
messing with Docker networks directly,
you're gonna have tools that
are setting those networks for you, but
I wanna show you there's really no
mystery here, you can do it by hand.
So I'm gonna leave db running, if I say
docker ps, you can see the db is still
running, now we're going to write a node
application that speaks to the Mongo.